Gaza is only about 25 miles
long and seven miles wide.
But this small strip of land
is one of the most
fought over in history.
It was an Egyptian base,
a royal city for the Philistines
and the place
where the Hebrew hero,
Samson, betrayed by Delilah,
met his death.
Since then, much blood has been spilled.
The most recent contest for Gaza began
at the end of World
War Two,
when persecuted Jews
traveled to Israel from Europe
looking for a new start
After the horrors of the Holocaust.
In 1947,
the United Nations
created a plan to split
Palestine into two lands
one for Jews and one for the Arab people.
Backed by the U.S.
President, Harry Truman.
David Ben-Gurion, Israel's
founder, proclaims
the establishment
of the State of Israel in 1948.
Egypt then attacked Israel
through the Gaza Strip.
Israel was victorious,
but Gaza remained
under the control of Egypt,
and an influx of Palestinian refugees
began.
In 1967, war broke out between Israel,
Egypt, Jordan and Syria
in what became known as the Six-Day War.
Israel seized the Gaza Strip
and held it for 40 years.
Israel pulled its forces
out of Gaza in 2005.
In 2006, Hamas, a group sworn
to destroy Israel
and listed by the United States,
the European Union
and others as a terrorist group,
won a landslide victory
in Palestinian legislative elections.
Hamas was now in
control of the territory.
However, Israel's deal controls
much of the areas access
to and from the Gaza Strip.
Since then, Israel and Hamas
have been exchanging blows.
Israel maintains
that Hamas is a violent terror
organization.
Of Hamas says
that they represent an oppressed people
being victimized by the Jewish state.
The international community continues
to press for a cease in violence.
But for now,
the strip's
population of 1.8 million people
are trapped in the crossfire.